I think that's like a really good
segue though, into our next topic,
which is this idea of like,
auto layout, right?
Which again, there's a question here about
like, copy figma grid to a CSS file.
Let's say let's see what
happens when we have inspect.
I'm not totally certain what
we're gonna get but let's see.
This one we don't seem
to have much in the way,
this is the overall grid
in this case to work with.
So, I don't know if we can like get
as much help as we did with some
of the other pieces for our grids.
Like we might be a little
bit on our own in this case.
But let's look at something that is kind
of related to this idea of like flexible
things to figure stuff out, right?
Which is kind of the theme of some of
the questions that I'm seeing right now,
which is this idea of like auto layout,
right?
Because we kind of got there
a little bit with our constraints,
but we're still placing
everything in there.
But in my CSS we have a bunch of
things that will kind of like we
determined some rules and
it lays stuff out for us, right?
Which is again like looking at
the chat right now theme of some of
the questions so
let's talk about a little bit which is,
let's say I wanted to
have a sidebar well like.
I don't know I could grab some things.
And I could try to arrange them.
And I can use that trick that we saw
in the very beginning of the course.
And also just happened to
be distributed nicely.
And I can like tuck them in.
And if I wanted to switch these two we
saw with the dots I can go in like,
grab that and
try to flip it with that one.
There are ways to do this and
I like don't it, right?
It's somewhat tedious.
Auto layout is incredibly powerful
especially if you're coming in
with the like, paradigm of like a software
engineer who has been developing for
the web, right?
Like a lot of times we
just say some rules.
Like, if your brain immediately jumps like
some of the questions were like about CSS
grid, like if as I show you some of this,
your brain starts thinking like,
that's like flexbox, right?
And nowhere in the figma UI is it using
the word flexbox or CSS grid, but
if your brand jumps to that,
that's like let it go there, right?
That's a useful metaphor for our term for
our case of like kind of figuring
some of these pieces out.
So, If I can grab any given
frame that has some stuff in it,
I can grab on that doesn't
have stuff in it too but
ideally this is more useful
if it has some stuff in it.
And let's take a look some real quick,
we'll see that these are they've
got about three pixels between it.
Let's just change that to
really purposeful value of 17.
We would never purposely use, unless we're
just feeling extra chaotic that day.
But let's go with 17,
just to make a point.
And we'll grab this frame, we'll go
to design, and we'll hit auto layout.
And you'll see that it's shrunk to
the size of these components, and
again this is where the flexbox
metaphor works, space in between items,
that sounds somewhat familiar.
You can set the various margins and
padding around the items and
then like the alignment, right?
Now in this case if you look,
I purposely set that to 17 before
you can see by default figma did its
best to figure out the rules for
how my auto layout should work.
It's like you add a bunch of things
evenly spaced out by 17 pixels.
You probably want a spacing of 17 pixels.
I don't, but it wasn't wrong for
assuming that because I did it to
be chaotic to make a point, right?
And so I can say, okay, 17 pixels.
If you can have some padding, right?
You can kind of see that you can almost
I'm holding and dragging this case.
You can adjust the padding too, you can
actually grab anything in here now,
hold on let me grab one thing I could just
literally flip it around like this, right?
Because it is saying like cool it's
effectively a flexbox in this case.
This is a collection of things,
they all have like a gap of,
how many pixels I have
it set to these days.
And in this order with effectively
like a flex start I can this case
are all the right size but so
this doesn't matter I can set the margin,
effectively like it's very much
like what we think of from CSS.
And now if I add more items in so
I just like, grab settings,
hold on let me grab it and
I just drop stuff in.
And it'll all just rearrange and
lay everything out for me,
kind of like as we would
assume that it might.
This is powerful in a lot of ways,
it's powerful for a list, navbar menu,
you could see it being really useful like,
cool.
We just wanna add a thing.
I don't wanna sit there and
like distribute everything all
over again every time I'm like,
changing like a word or imagine like,
think about if you had to handle it out.
Your navbar and
then you just change one word, right?
Like yeah, maybe you got that grid
in those constraints perfect and
everything works.
But chances are you're gonna have to
do some amount of like readjustment and
that's no fun.
But it's useful and
powerful in a lot of other ways, as well.
So, yeah, you can see and
you can adjust all of these things.
I'm just gonna play around some settings
as well just to kind of experiment.
I can change the direction.
Let's just move this real quick.
And now it's almost like
a navbar in this case, right?
I just said instead of flex column,
flex row, right?
And it automatically lays everything
out just as I might expect.
I can go switch that again.
The other powerful thing,
right now it's sorta set to hug contents.
That's when you saw it shrink down when I
first set that auto layout it's like cool
the frame itself like just gives up and
says whatever is in it that will
determine my width and height, right?
Not unlike CSS but
we have a few other settings here I
can say it's actually got a fixed width,
right?
And what we'll do here is
we'll go a little bit.
And in this case you can see
that they're centered I can do
almost a flex justify start with flex end.
I can also do space between where
it'll spread them out just like
we would in flexbox.
If we go into inspect, you can see that it
does in fact, in this case like it didn't
before with our layout grids, it didn't
like try to figure that all out for us,
but in this case it is such
a similar paradigm to flexbox.
That in this case like, yeah, it will
actually give us at least the beginnings
again, I wouldn't just copy and
paste it and throw it in there.
But you can like again,
because like as I joked before, like,
who amongst us hasn't visited
that one CSS tricks article?
Reminding us some of
the different terms in flexbox.
And so yeah, we'll go ahead and
we're going again, in this case,
I'm gonna just change it to column again.
Because now it's got a known width and
height and I can change in this direction.
And again, this is space between as
the setting that we have right now.
And again, I can like grab one more thing,
toss it in there and
everything automatically readjust.
This is incredibly powerful.
Let me show you one more way
in which it is powerful.
Who doesn't like to make buttons?
Right?
One way that you might choose to make
a button is you make a rectangle like,
y that like meme of like,
there's the brain and there's like
eventually get to galaxy brain.
Basically, we're gonna do here, right?
So, I can make a rectangle and
I can put some words over it.
That, I mean has the problem
of they're separate, but
like I'm better than
that I can group them.
I could do that.
I could put it in a frame together.
That seems fun, right?
The problem here is the rectangle
is part of the frame.
So, like the next level
up is that I could make
the frames background color that green,
right?
But like I don't I wanna sit there,
like I could set constraints
I could do that, right?
I could like, okay, let's do this again,
now as a frame instead
of a rectangle I can
say center it and
that will work it'll stay
centered until I give it a very long name.
Again, I'm gonna sit here manually
tweaking stuff over and over again.
I don't wanna leave like this.
So, what I wanna do is I wanna say,
hey frame, you're an auto layout now.
And you know what, like,
let's say you've got,
I don't know 16, 8,16 and 8.
And just to make you
a little more buttoned,
like we give you a border ready
still to give it a stroke as well.
But now, short name, longer name.
Now we have a button that grows and
shrink even like so,
auto layout is great if
you have a lot of things.
Auto Layout is really great for
just one or two things.
Now you can imagine if this
is a button with an icon.
Now it's two things, it's still useful.
It's kind of like what these are, right?
So, I can grab any given one of these and
say I can also hit Shift A.
And you can see that I do need
to change this to like centered.
And I might say that like fill container
because it's in another auto layout.
Now this one is filling the width of
the fixed width frame that it's in, but
then on width and height hugging and
centering its contents, right?
And so I can do that for all of these and
then like effectively have auto
layouts nested in auto layout.
So, should explore a little
bit more in a second or two.
One easier way if you find yourself making
a lot of buttons and you don't have
button components yet If you can literally
just take just some text grab it and
either right click and
say create auto layout or hit Shift A.
It puts it in a frame with an auto layout
with some sensible defaults that you can
now like change the color of.
And like effectively create
stuff very quickly, and easily.
You can create a menu bar like we
saw before with the space between.
Auto layout is incredibly powerful for
like having pieces that you can kind of
put in there and play around with as well.
There are some limitations, which is
basically because layout grid is doing so
much it supersedes, I'm sorry.
Because auto layout is doing so much,
it supersedes any layout grids or
constraints that you have.
It's rules basically are more important
than the rules of your layout grid,
your constraints or
anything along those lines.
Cool, so, there's a bunch of things
that you can try like what would be like
to make an input field, right?
That's kind of like got some center text
it should theoretically align it to the to
the left.
So, you can definitely check
out making an input field.
We'll do that a little bit more later.
The other you can try out real quick just
to get your hands dirty with it is like,
what would it look like just be
able to add another tab in here?
Add another button in here.
Just put courses in here.
We could theoretically, if you think
about the way that the web works,
unlike more other pixel perfect
designs that you might implement,
like this entire frame, could be just
a series of layoffs grids, right?
Like, I wanna add another
course like cool.
There's my course, I wanna add another div
on top of this it should stack up just
like it would with an auto layout, yeah.
>> Can figma do something like flex wrap?
>> No, I wish, you can't like have it
wrapped around stuff like that yet again,
this is a feature that was relatively
new like somebody was using.
If someone new so like, hopefully, but
like at this present moment, you cannot.
So, what I want you to do is at this
point like go ahead, make a button,
make an input field,
they don't have to be perfect.
We'll make better ones with some of
the accoutrements in a little bit and
see like, what would it be light implement
Is some kind layout grid in this UI.
We won't do the like you can take this as
levels of extremely everything kind of
lays out like a wood on the web that
would take us like more time than we have
patience for watching but
like you could do it, yeah.
>> Jut like sort of like a brugstor now
that we are talking about buts and stuff,
does figma have any ability to
mock functionality in any way?
Right like I think about a button
that you click and then it opens and
modal would if I'm doing something like
a mock in figma what I have to create like
two separate frames?
And this is where my button lives so
then this is the modal that would open, or
can we map that functionality of
opening a modal onto the button and
create a sort of interactive mock?
>> I'm gonna give you a little
bit spoiler alert, oops, so
figma has a full prototyping,
we can like jump between frames, right?
That's like the first part
of your question, but
a relatively new feature I think
it's only like a few months old.
I don't have the timelines memorized.
But like is there's an idea
of interactive components.
So, you can actually say here's a button,
here's the buttons hover state.
Here's one's active say when
the hammer clicks on it, right?
Here's a hole and also like,
do an animation like the same way you'd
have a CSS animation between the two.
And then in the prototype when they hover
over the stuff will your hover state you
can have it transition to the hover state.
You can have, like zoom you have a lot
of that interactivity kind of like built
in by some stuff you will
move to another frame.
Some stuff you may like choose if it's
like actually triggered by the click,
you might have a second
frame that has the modal up.
But for a lot of the like this should be
highlighted when I mouse over it this
should like you know raise up and
have a background drop shadow behind it
you can actually do a lot of that, yeah